@chapter Who's behind the project?

I'm Geoffrey Noer (noer@@cygnus.com).  I am the current maintainer of the
Cygwin32 library and manage the public beta releases, among other
tasks.  I try to be as responsive as possible and deal with patches
and questions as I get them, but realistically it's just not
possible for me to answer all of my email.  Making net releases of the
Win32 tools and helping out is not my primary job function, so some email
will have to go unanswered.

Steve Chamberlain (sac@@transmeta.com) was the original author of
Cygwin32.  He wrote most of the original Win32-specific code, produced
all of the releases up to beta 14, ported many of the other GNU tools
to work under Win32, and ported V to work with the gnu-win32 tools.

Sergey Okhapkin (sos@@prospect.com.ru) rewrote much of the signal
and exception handling code, implemented the tty/pty support, and has
made countless contributions throughout the library.

Chris Faylor (cgf@@bbc.com) contributed significant fixes to
the process control and environ code and reworked the strace
mechanism.  Most recently, he rewrote the signal-related code
from scratch.

Philippe Giacinti (giac@@dalim.de) contributed our implementation of
dlopen, dlclose, dlsym, dlfork, and dlerror.

Ian Lance Taylor (ian@@cygnus.com) did a much-needed rework of the path
handling code and has contributed many assorted fixes throughout
the code.

Tobin Brockett (tobin@@cygnus.com) wrote the InstallShield-based
installer for the beta 19 release.

Jeremy Allison (jra@@cygnus.com) made significant contributions
in the area of file handling and process control, and rewrote
select from scratch.

Doug Evans (dje@@cygnus.com) spent many long hours rewriting the
path-handling code in beta 16 and fixed countless other problems.
Jason Molenda and Mark Eichin have also made many important
contributions.

Kim Knuttila and Michael Meissner put in many long hours working on
the PowerPC port.

Also many thanks to everyone using the tools for their many
contributions in the form of advice, bug reports, and code fixes.
Keep them coming!

Commercial sites can purchase support from Cygnus for cross-compilers
hosted under Windows NT/95.  Send mail to info@@cygnus.com for more
information.  Official support for the Win32 native tools is not
available at this time.
